src-server/README.md, before:

Wealthfolio Server

Overview
- This crate runs the HTTP API (Axum) and serves static files for the web build.
- It uses the shared `src-core` for all business logic, repositories, and migrations.

Run locally (Rust only)
- From the repo root:
  - `cargo run --manifest-path src-server/Cargo.toml`

Key environment variables
- `WF_LISTEN_ADDR`: Bind address, default `127.0.0.1:8080`.
- `WF_DB_PATH`: Path to the SQLite database file (or a directory; if a directory is provided, `app.db` is used inside it). Example: `./db/app.db`.
- `WF_CORS_ALLOW_ORIGINS`: Comma-separated list of allowed origins for CORS. Example: `http://localhost:1420`.
- `WF_REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS`: Request timeout in milliseconds. Default `30000`.
- `WF_STATIC_DIR`: Directory to serve static assets from (the web build output). Default `dist`.
- `WF_SECRET_KEY`: Required 32-byte key used to encrypt secrets at rest and sign JWTs. Must decode to exactly 32 bytes.
  Can be provided as:
  - Base64-encoded string (recommended): Generate with `openssl rand -base64 32` or `head -c 32 /dev/urandom | base64`
  - 32-byte ASCII string: Must be exactly 32 characters (less secure if contains only printable characters)
  Example: `WF_SECRET_KEY=$(openssl rand -base64 32)`.
- `WF_AUTH_PASSWORD_HASH`: Enables password-only authentication for web mode when set to an Argon2id PHC string.
  Generate via online tools like [Coderstool](https://www.coderstool.com/argon2-hash-generator) or the following command:
  ```bash
  argon2 "your-password" -id -e
  ```
  When unset, authentication is disabled.
- `WF_AUTH_TOKEN_TTL_MINUTES`: Optional JWT access token lifetime (minutes). Defaults to `60`.
- `WF_SECRET_FILE`: Optional override for where encrypted secrets are stored. Defaults to `<data-root>/secrets.json`.

Notes
- The server also honors `DATABASE_URL`; when running in this workspace, `WF_DB_PATH` is preferred and propagated to `DATABASE_URL` internally so the core layer uses the expected path.
- Database migrations are embedded and applied automatically on startup.
- Secrets in web/server mode are stored in an encrypted JSON file derived from the database directory using `WF_SECRET_KEY`.

Commit message:

Update README files to reflect Docker image usage and correct hash generator link

src-server/README.md, after:

Wealthfolio Server

Overview
- This crate runs the HTTP API (Axum) and serves static files for the web build.
- It uses the shared `src-core` for all business logic, repositories, and migrations.

Run locally (Rust only)
- From the repo root:
  - `cargo run --manifest-path src-server/Cargo.toml`

Docker image
- Pull the latest published server image with `docker pull afadil/wealthfolio:latest`.
- Use that tag (or your locally built image) in the Docker run examples inside the root `README.md`.

Key environment variables
- `WF_LISTEN_ADDR`: Bind address, default `127.0.0.1:8080`.
- `WF_DB_PATH`: Path to the SQLite database file (or a directory; if a directory is provided, `app.db` is used inside it). Example: `./db/app.db`.
- `WF_CORS_ALLOW_ORIGINS`: Comma-separated list of allowed origins for CORS. Example: `http://localhost:1420`.
- `WF_REQUEST_TIMEOUT_MS`: Request timeout in milliseconds. Default `30000`.
- `WF_STATIC_DIR`: Directory to serve static assets from (the web build output). Default `dist`.
- `WF_SECRET_KEY`: Required 32-byte key used to encrypt secrets at rest and sign JWTs. Must decode to exactly 32 bytes.
  Can be provided as:
  - Base64-encoded string (recommended): Generate with `openssl rand -base64 32` or `head -c 32 /dev/urandom | base64`
  - 32-byte ASCII string: Must be exactly 32 characters (less secure if contains only printable characters)
  Example: `WF_SECRET_KEY=$(openssl rand -base64 32)`.
- `WF_AUTH_PASSWORD_HASH`: Enables password-only authentication for web mode when set to an Argon2id PHC string.
  Generate via online tools like [argon2.online](https://argon2.online/) or the following command:
  ```bash
  argon2 "your-password" -id -e
  ```
  When unset, authentication is disabled.
- `WF_AUTH_TOKEN_TTL_MINUTES`: Optional JWT access token lifetime (minutes). Defaults to `60`.
- `WF_SECRET_FILE`: Optional override for where encrypted secrets are stored. Defaults to `<data-root>/secrets.json`.

Notes
- The server also honors `DATABASE_URL`; when running in this workspace, `WF_DB_PATH` is preferred and propagated to `DATABASE_URL` internally so the core layer uses the expected path.
- Database migrations are embedded and applied automatically on startup.
- Secrets in web/server mode are stored in an encrypted JSON file derived from the database directory using `WF_SECRET_KEY`.
