docs/addons/addon-getting-started.md, before:

## Prerequisites

```bash
# Check Node.js version (requires 20+)
node --version

# Check pnpm
pnpm --version

# Install pnpm if needed
npm install -g pnpm
```

Requirements:

- Node.js 20+ and pnpm
- Wealthfolio desktop app (optional but recommended: running in development mode
  for live reload and testing)
- Basic TypeScript and React knowledge
- Code editor (VS Code recommended)

## Start Wealthfolio (Recommended)

For the best development experience with live reload and testing, start
Wealthfolio in development mode:

```bash
# Clone Wealthfolio repository (if not already done)
git clone https://github.com/afadil/wealthfolio.git
cd wealthfolio

# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Start in development mode
pnpm tauri dev
```

This enables:

- Live addon reload when files change
- Better error messages and debugging
- Automatic addon discovery
- Console logging for development

## Create New Addon

```bash
# Navigate to development directory
cd ~/Documents/WealthfolioAddons

# Create addon using CLI
npx @wealthfolio/addon-dev-tools create hello-world-addon

# Navigate and install
cd hello-world-addon
pnpm install
```

This will scaffold a new addon project with the following structure:

```
hello-world-addon/
├── src/
│   ├── addon.tsx           # Main addon entry point
│   ├── components/         # React components
│   ├── hooks/              # React hooks
│   ├── pages/              # Addon pages
│   ├── utils/              # Utility functions
│   └── types/              # Type definitions
├── dist/                   # Built files (generated)
├── manifest.json           # Addon metadata and permissions
├── package.json            # NPM package configuration
├── vite.config.ts          # Build configuration
├── tsconfig.json           # TypeScript configuration
└── README.md               # Documentation
```

## Manifest File

`manifest.json` defines metadata and permissions:

```json
{
  "id": "hello-world-addon",
  "name": "Hello World Addon",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "My first Wealthfolio addon",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "permissions": {
    "category": "ui",
    "functions": ["sidebar.addItem", "router.add"],
    "purpose": "Add navigation items and routes"
  }
}
```

## Main Addon File

`src/addon.tsx` contains the addon logic:

```typescript
import React from 'react';
import type { AddonContext } from '@wealthfolio/addon-sdk';
import { Icons } from '@wealthfolio/ui';

function HelloWorldPage() {
  return (
    <div className="p-6 max-w-4xl mx-auto">
      <h1 className="text-4xl font-bold mb-4">Hello Wealthfolio</h1>
      <p className="text-xl mb-8">Your first addon is working.</p>

      <div className="border rounded-lg p-6">
        <h2 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-2">Success</h2>
        <p>You've successfully created and loaded your first addon.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function enable(ctx: AddonContext) {
  // Add sidebar item
  const sidebarItem = ctx.sidebar.addItem({
    id: 'hello-world',
    label: 'Hello World',
    icon: <Icons.Blocks className="h-5 w-5" />,
    route: '/addon/hello-world',
    order: 100
  });

  // Register route
  ctx.router.add({
    path: '/addon/hello-world',
    component: React.lazy(() => Promise.resolve({
      default: () => <HelloWorldPage />
    }))
  });

  ctx.api.logger.info('Hello World addon loaded');

  return {
    disable() {
      sidebarItem.remove();
      ctx.api.logger.info('Hello World addon disabled');
    }
  };
}
```

## Start Development

```bash
# Start development server (recommended)
pnpm dev:server
```

Output:

```
Wealthfolio Addon Development Server
Addon: hello-world-addon
Server: http://localhost:3001
Watching for changes...
```

### Hot Reload Features

- File watching in `src/` directory
- Fast rebuilds with Vite
- Hot Module Replacement for component updates
- Auto-discovery by Wealthfolio
- Error recovery with overlay messages

### Available Commands

```bash
pnpm dev:server   # Start development server (recommended)
pnpm build        # Production build
pnpm type-check   # Run TypeScript checks
pnpm lint         # Run ESLint
pnpm format       # Run Prettier
pnpm bundle       # Bundle addon for distribution
```

Verify in Wealthfolio:

1. Open Wealthfolio (preferably in development mode with `pnpm tauri dev`)
2. Check sidebar for "Hello World"
3. Click to load addon page
4. Check console for log message

## Add Data Access

For data access, it's recommended to use
[TanStack Query](https://tanstack.com/query/latest).

First, install TanStack Query in your addon:

```bash
pnpm add @tanstack/react-query@^5.62.7
```

Update `src/addon.tsx` to access portfolio data using TanStack Query:

```typescript
import React from 'react';
import { useQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query';
import type { AddonContext, Account } from '@wealthfolio/addon-sdk';

function HelloWorldPage({ ctx }: { ctx: AddonContext }) {
  const {
    data: accounts = [],
    isLoading,
    isError,
    error,
    refetch
  } = useQuery<Account[]>({
    queryKey: ['accounts'],
    queryFn: () => ctx.api.accounts.getAll(),
    onError: (error) => {
      ctx.api.logger.error('Failed to load accounts:', error);
    },
    staleTime: 5 * 60 * 1000, // 5 minutes
    refetchOnWindowFocus: false,
  });

  return (
    <div className="p-6 max-w-4xl mx-auto">
      <h1 className="text-3xl font-bold mb-6">Hello Wealthfolio</h1>

      <div className="border rounded-lg p-6 mb-8">
        <div className="flex justify-between items-center mb-4">
          <h2 className="text-lg font-semibold">Portfolio Summary</h2>
          <button
            onClick={() => refetch()}
            disabled={isLoading}
            className="px-3 py-1 text-sm border rounded hover:bg-gray-50 disabled:opacity-50"
          >
            {isLoading ? 'Loading...' : 'Refresh'}
          </button>
        </div>

        {isLoading ? (
          <div className="flex items-center space-x-2">
            <div className="animate-spin rounded-full h-4 w-4 border-b-2 border-gray-900"></div>
            <span>Loading accounts...</span>
          </div>
        ) : isError ? (
          <div className="text-red-600">
            <p>Failed to load accounts: {error?.message}</p>
            <button
              onClick={() => refetch()}
              className="mt-2 px-3 py-1 text-sm bg-red-100 text-red-700 rounded hover:bg-red-200"
            >
              Try Again
            </button>
          </div>
        ) : (
          <div>
            <p className="mb-4">
              You have {accounts.length} account{accounts.length !== 1 ? 's' : ''}:
            </p>

            {accounts.length > 0 ? (
              <div className="grid gap-3">
                {accounts.map((account) => (
                  <div key={account.id} className="border rounded-lg p-4">
                    <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
                      <div>
                        <h3 className="font-semibold">{account.name}</h3>
                        <p className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">
                          {account.currency} • {account.isActive ? 'Active' : 'Inactive'}
                        </p>
                      </div>
                      <div className="text-right">
                        <div className="text-lg font-semibold">
                          {account.totalValue?.toLocaleString() || 'N/A'}
                        </div>
                        <div className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">Total Value</div>
                      </div>
                    </div>
                  </div>
                ))}
              </div>
            ) : (
              <p className="text-muted-foreground">
                No accounts found. Add an account in Wealthfolio to see data.
              </p>
            )}
          </div>
        )}
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function enable(ctx: AddonContext) {
  const sidebarItem = ctx.sidebar.addItem({
    id: 'hello-world',
    label: 'Hello World',
    route: '/addon/hello-world',
    order: 100
  });

  ctx.router.add({
    path: '/addon/hello-world',
    component: React.lazy(() => Promise.resolve({
      default: () => <HelloWorldPage ctx={ctx} />
    }))
  });

  return {
    disable() {
      sidebarItem.remove();
    }
  };
}
```

## Update Permissions

Update `manifest.json` to include account access:

```json
{
  "id": "hello-world-addon",
  "name": "Hello World Addon",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "My first Wealthfolio addon",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "permissions": {
    "accounts": ["read"],
    "ui": ["read"]
  },
  "dataAccess": [
    {
      "category": "accounts",
      "functions": ["getAll"],
      "purpose": "Display account summary"
    },
    {
      "category": "ui",
      "functions": ["sidebar.addItem", "router.add"],
      "purpose": "Add navigation and routes"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Build and Package

```bash
# Build for production
pnpm build

# Package for distribution
pnpm bundle
```

Creates `dist/hello-world-addon.zip` for installation.

## Debugging and Development Tools

### Browser Developer Tools

Access full debugging capabilities:

```typescript
// Use console for debugging
ctx.api.logger.info("Debug message");
ctx.api.logger.error("Error message");

// Access React DevTools
// Components will show up in React DevTools extension
```

### Error Handling

```typescript
export default function enable(ctx: AddonContext) {
  try {
    // Your addon code
  } catch (error) {
    ctx.api.logger.error("Addon error:", error);
    // Handle gracefully
  }
}
```

### Development Server Features

- Port: `http://localhost:3001`
- CORS configured for Wealthfolio
- Source maps for debugging
- Real-time TypeScript checking
- Hot Module Replacement

## IDE Setup

### VS Code (Recommended)

Recommended extensions:

- TypeScript and JavaScript Language Features
- ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native snippets
- Tailwind CSS IntelliSense
- Auto Rename Tag
- Error Lens

Create `.vscode/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "typescript.preferences.importModuleSpecifier": "relative",
  "editor.formatOnSave": true,
  "editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode"
}
```

## Code Quality and Testing

### Manual Testing

1. Start development server
2. Open Wealthfolio
3. Navigate to your addon
4. Test all features
5. Check console for errors

### Code Quality Commands

```bash
# Type checking
pnpm type-check

# Linting
pnpm lint

# Formatting
pnpm format
```

## Configuration Files

### Package.json Scripts

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev:server": "wealthfolio dev",
    "build": "vite build",
    "type-check": "tsc --noEmit",
    "lint": "eslint src --ext .ts,.tsx",
    "format": "prettier --write \"src/**/*.{ts,tsx}\"",
    "bundle": "pnpm build && zip -r addon.zip manifest.json dist/"
  }
}
```

### TypeScript Configuration

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2020",
    "lib": ["ES2020", "DOM", "DOM.Iterable"],
    "module": "ESNext",
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "moduleResolution": "bundler",
    "allowImportingTsExtensions": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "isolatedModules": true,
    "noEmit": true,
    "jsx": "react-jsx",
    "strict": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "noUnusedParameters": true,
    "noFallthroughCasesInSwitch": true
  },
  "include": ["src"],
  "references": [{ "path": "./tsconfig.node.json" }]
}
```

### Vite Build Configuration

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import react from "@vitejs/plugin-react";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react()],
  build: {
    lib: {
      entry: "src/addon.tsx",
      formats: ["es"],
      fileName: () => "addon.js",
    },
    rollupOptions: {
      external: ["react", "react-dom"],
      output: {
        globals: {
          react: "React",
          "react-dom": "ReactDOM",
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Next Steps

You now understand:

- Project structure and development workflow
- Permission system and security model
- Hot reload development
- API integration for portfolio data
- UI integration with navigation

Continue with:

- [API Reference](/docs/addons/api-reference) - All available APIs
- [Examples](https://github.com/afadil/wealthfolio/tree/main/addons/) - Real
  addon implementations

Commit message:

docs: update documentation for addon development mode and clarify usage instructions

docs/addons/addon-getting-started.md, after:

## Prerequisites

```bash
# Check Node.js version (requires 20+)
node --version

# Check pnpm
pnpm --version

# Install pnpm if needed
npm install -g pnpm
```

Requirements:

- Node.js 20+ and pnpm
- Wealthfolio desktop app (optional but recommended: running in development mode
  for live reload and testing)
- Basic TypeScript and React knowledge
- Code editor (VS Code recommended)

## Start Wealthfolio (Recommended)

For the best development experience with live reload and testing, start
Wealthfolio in addon development mode:

```bash
# Clone Wealthfolio repository (if not already done)
git clone https://github.com/afadil/wealthfolio.git
cd wealthfolio

# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Start in addon development mode
VITE_ENABLE_ADDON_DEV_MODE=true pnpm tauri dev
```

This enables:

- Live addon reload when files change
- Better error messages and debugging
- Automatic addon discovery
- Console logging for development

> **Note:** For browser-only development (without Tauri), you can use
> `pnpm dev:addons` instead.

## Create New Addon

```bash
# Navigate to development directory
cd ~/Documents/WealthfolioAddons

# Create addon using CLI
npx @wealthfolio/addon-dev-tools create hello-world-addon

# Navigate and install
cd hello-world-addon
pnpm install
```

This will scaffold a new addon project with the following structure:

```
hello-world-addon/
├── src/
│   ├── addon.tsx           # Main addon entry point
│   ├── components/         # React components
│   ├── hooks/              # React hooks
│   ├── pages/              # Addon pages
│   ├── utils/              # Utility functions
│   └── types/              # Type definitions
├── dist/                   # Built files (generated)
├── manifest.json           # Addon metadata and permissions
├── package.json            # NPM package configuration
├── vite.config.ts          # Build configuration
├── tsconfig.json           # TypeScript configuration
└── README.md               # Documentation
```

## Manifest File

`manifest.json` defines metadata and permissions:

```json
{
  "id": "hello-world-addon",
  "name": "Hello World Addon",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "My first Wealthfolio addon",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "permissions": {
    "category": "ui",
    "functions": ["sidebar.addItem", "router.add"],
    "purpose": "Add navigation items and routes"
  }
}
```

## Main Addon File

`src/addon.tsx` contains the addon logic:

```typescript
import React from 'react';
import type { AddonContext } from '@wealthfolio/addon-sdk';
import { Icons } from '@wealthfolio/ui';

function HelloWorldPage() {
  return (
    <div className="p-6 max-w-4xl mx-auto">
      <h1 className="text-4xl font-bold mb-4">Hello Wealthfolio</h1>
      <p className="text-xl mb-8">Your first addon is working.</p>

      <div className="border rounded-lg p-6">
        <h2 className="text-lg font-semibold mb-2">Success</h2>
        <p>You've successfully created and loaded your first addon.</p>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function enable(ctx: AddonContext) {
  // Add sidebar item
  const sidebarItem = ctx.sidebar.addItem({
    id: 'hello-world',
    label: 'Hello World',
    icon: <Icons.Blocks className="h-5 w-5" />,
    route: '/addon/hello-world',
    order: 100
  });

  // Register route
  ctx.router.add({
    path: '/addon/hello-world',
    component: React.lazy(() => Promise.resolve({
      default: () => <HelloWorldPage />
    }))
  });

  ctx.api.logger.info('Hello World addon loaded');

  return {
    disable() {
      sidebarItem.remove();
      ctx.api.logger.info('Hello World addon disabled');
    }
  };
}
```

## Start Development

```bash
# Start development server (recommended)
pnpm dev:server
```

Output:

```
Wealthfolio Addon Development Server
Addon: hello-world-addon
Server: http://localhost:3001
Watching for changes...
```

### Hot Reload Features

- File watching in `src/` directory
- Fast rebuilds with Vite
- Hot Module Replacement for component updates
- Auto-discovery by Wealthfolio
- Error recovery with overlay messages

### Available Commands

```bash
pnpm dev:server   # Start development server (recommended)
pnpm build        # Production build
pnpm type-check   # Run TypeScript checks
pnpm lint         # Run ESLint
pnpm format       # Run Prettier
pnpm bundle       # Bundle addon for distribution
```

Verify in Wealthfolio:

1. Open Wealthfolio in addon development mode with
   `VITE_ENABLE_ADDON_DEV_MODE=true pnpm tauri dev`
2. Check sidebar for "Hello World"
3. Click to load addon page
4. Check console for log message

## Add Data Access

For data access, it's recommended to use
[TanStack Query](https://tanstack.com/query/latest).

First, install TanStack Query in your addon:

```bash
pnpm add @tanstack/react-query@^5.62.7
```

Update `src/addon.tsx` to access portfolio data using TanStack Query:

```typescript
import React from 'react';
import { useQuery } from '@tanstack/react-query';
import type { AddonContext, Account } from '@wealthfolio/addon-sdk';

function HelloWorldPage({ ctx }: { ctx: AddonContext }) {
  const {
    data: accounts = [],
    isLoading,
    isError,
    error,
    refetch
  } = useQuery<Account[]>({
    queryKey: ['accounts'],
    queryFn: () => ctx.api.accounts.getAll(),
    onError: (error) => {
      ctx.api.logger.error('Failed to load accounts:', error);
    },
    staleTime: 5 * 60 * 1000, // 5 minutes
    refetchOnWindowFocus: false,
  });

  return (
    <div className="p-6 max-w-4xl mx-auto">
      <h1 className="text-3xl font-bold mb-6">Hello Wealthfolio</h1>

      <div className="border rounded-lg p-6 mb-8">
        <div className="flex justify-between items-center mb-4">
          <h2 className="text-lg font-semibold">Portfolio Summary</h2>
          <button
            onClick={() => refetch()}
            disabled={isLoading}
            className="px-3 py-1 text-sm border rounded hover:bg-gray-50 disabled:opacity-50"
          >
            {isLoading ? 'Loading...' : 'Refresh'}
          </button>
        </div>

        {isLoading ? (
          <div className="flex items-center space-x-2">
            <div className="animate-spin rounded-full h-4 w-4 border-b-2 border-gray-900"></div>
            <span>Loading accounts...</span>
          </div>
        ) : isError ? (
          <div className="text-red-600">
            <p>Failed to load accounts: {error?.message}</p>
            <button
              onClick={() => refetch()}
              className="mt-2 px-3 py-1 text-sm bg-red-100 text-red-700 rounded hover:bg-red-200"
            >
              Try Again
            </button>
          </div>
        ) : (
          <div>
            <p className="mb-4">
              You have {accounts.length} account{accounts.length !== 1 ? 's' : ''}:
            </p>

            {accounts.length > 0 ? (
              <div className="grid gap-3">
                {accounts.map((account) => (
                  <div key={account.id} className="border rounded-lg p-4">
                    <div className="flex justify-between items-center">
                      <div>
                        <h3 className="font-semibold">{account.name}</h3>
                        <p className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">
                          {account.currency} • {account.isActive ? 'Active' : 'Inactive'}
                        </p>
                      </div>
                      <div className="text-right">
                        <div className="text-lg font-semibold">
                          {account.totalValue?.toLocaleString() || 'N/A'}
                        </div>
                        <div className="text-sm text-muted-foreground">Total Value</div>
                      </div>
                    </div>
                  </div>
                ))}
              </div>
            ) : (
              <p className="text-muted-foreground">
                No accounts found. Add an account in Wealthfolio to see data.
              </p>
            )}
          </div>
        )}
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}

export default function enable(ctx: AddonContext) {
  const sidebarItem = ctx.sidebar.addItem({
    id: 'hello-world',
    label: 'Hello World',
    route: '/addon/hello-world',
    order: 100
  });

  ctx.router.add({
    path: '/addon/hello-world',
    component: React.lazy(() => Promise.resolve({
      default: () => <HelloWorldPage ctx={ctx} />
    }))
  });

  return {
    disable() {
      sidebarItem.remove();
    }
  };
}
```

## Update Permissions

Update `manifest.json` to include account access:

```json
{
  "id": "hello-world-addon",
  "name": "Hello World Addon",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "My first Wealthfolio addon",
  "author": "Your Name",
  "permissions": {
    "accounts": ["read"],
    "ui": ["read"]
  },
  "dataAccess": [
    {
      "category": "accounts",
      "functions": ["getAll"],
      "purpose": "Display account summary"
    },
    {
      "category": "ui",
      "functions": ["sidebar.addItem", "router.add"],
      "purpose": "Add navigation and routes"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Build and Package

```bash
# Build for production
pnpm build

# Package for distribution
pnpm bundle
```

Creates `dist/hello-world-addon.zip` for installation.

## Debugging and Development Tools

### Browser Developer Tools

Access full debugging capabilities:

```typescript
// Use console for debugging
ctx.api.logger.info("Debug message");
ctx.api.logger.error("Error message");

// Access React DevTools
// Components will show up in React DevTools extension
```

### Error Handling

```typescript
export default function enable(ctx: AddonContext) {
  try {
    // Your addon code
  } catch (error) {
    ctx.api.logger.error("Addon error:", error);
    // Handle gracefully
  }
}
```

### Development Server Features

- Port: `http://localhost:3001`
- CORS configured for Wealthfolio
- Source maps for debugging
- Real-time TypeScript checking
- Hot Module Replacement

## IDE Setup

### VS Code (Recommended)

Recommended extensions:

- TypeScript and JavaScript Language Features
- ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native snippets
- Tailwind CSS IntelliSense
- Auto Rename Tag
- Error Lens

Create `.vscode/settings.json`:

```json
{
  "typescript.preferences.importModuleSpecifier": "relative",
  "editor.formatOnSave": true,
  "editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode"
}
```

## Code Quality and Testing

### Manual Testing

1. Start development server
2. Open Wealthfolio
3. Navigate to your addon
4. Test all features
5. Check console for errors

### Code Quality Commands

```bash
# Type checking
pnpm type-check

# Linting
pnpm lint

# Formatting
pnpm format
```

## Configuration Files

### Package.json Scripts

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "dev:server": "wealthfolio dev",
    "build": "vite build",
    "type-check": "tsc --noEmit",
    "lint": "eslint src --ext .ts,.tsx",
    "format": "prettier --write \"src/**/*.{ts,tsx}\"",
    "bundle": "pnpm build && zip -r addon.zip manifest.json dist/"
  }
}
```

### TypeScript Configuration

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "target": "ES2020",
    "lib": ["ES2020", "DOM", "DOM.Iterable"],
    "module": "ESNext",
    "skipLibCheck": true,
    "moduleResolution": "bundler",
    "allowImportingTsExtensions": true,
    "resolveJsonModule": true,
    "isolatedModules": true,
    "noEmit": true,
    "jsx": "react-jsx",
    "strict": true,
    "noUnusedLocals": true,
    "noUnusedParameters": true,
    "noFallthroughCasesInSwitch": true
  },
  "include": ["src"],
  "references": [{ "path": "./tsconfig.node.json" }]
}
```

### Vite Build Configuration

```typescript
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import react from "@vitejs/plugin-react";

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react()],
  build: {
    lib: {
      entry: "src/addon.tsx",
      formats: ["es"],
      fileName: () => "addon.js",
    },
    rollupOptions: {
      external: ["react", "react-dom"],
      output: {
        globals: {
          react: "React",
          "react-dom": "ReactDOM",
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Next Steps

You now understand:

- Project structure and development workflow
- Permission system and security model
- Hot reload development
- API integration for portfolio data
- UI integration with navigation

Continue with:

- [API Reference](/docs/addons/api-reference) - All available APIs
- [Examples](https://github.com/afadil/wealthfolio/tree/main/addons/) - Real
  addon implementations
